website/docs/reference-docs/about-finite-fields.md, before:

# About Finite Fields

_RISC Zero's [computational receipts][receipt] are built by converting an assertion of computational integrity into an assertion about polynomials over finite fields.
This document serves as a minimal introduction to finite fields, targeted at folks who have some exposure to modular arithmetic and who are curious to learn more about the [math and cryptography behind RISC Zero](../proof-system/proof-system.md)._

## Finite Fields 101: Reciprocals, Exponents, and Generators

Loosely speaking, a **field** is a set of elements for which addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division work cleanly.

Here's what we mean by division working cleanly: for any field element $x$, we should be able to find a field element $x^{-1}$ such that $x\cdot x^{-1}\equiv1.$
We call $x^{-1}$ the _reciprocal_ of $x$ or the _multiplicative inverse_ of $x$.

`Example: The integers are not a field because the reciprocal of 3 is not an integer.`

`Example: The integers modulo 5 are a field. In this field, the reciprocal of 2 is 3. 4 is its own reciprocal.`

If $p$ is prime, the integers modulo $p$ are a field.
Moreover, I can find some element $g$ and write all the integers modulo $p$ as powers of $g$.

`Example: The integers modulo 5 can all be written as a power of 3.`

We say $3$ is a **multiplicative generator** for the integers modulo 5. For any prime modulus, a multiplicative generator exists.

## Finite Fields 201: Polynomials Over Finite Fields

Most of your Algebra II knowledge about polynomials still holds in finite fields.

`Example: Consider` $f(x)=x^2-1\text{ mod }5$`.  Observe that ` $f(1)=f(4)=0.$
`We say ` $f$ `has roots at 1 and 4, and we can factor in the familiar way:` $f(x)=(x-1)(x-4)$`.`

`Example:
Given three ordered pairs modulo 5, we can interpolate a degree 2 polynomial that passes through each point.`

FFTs still work over finite fields, although they're called NTTs.

> If the ideas above this text make sense, you should have enough finite field background to make sense of the applications in RISC Zero.

## Finite Fields 301 ― Roots of Unity

$z$ is called an **$n^{th}$ Root of Unity** if $z^n=1$.

`Example: 3 is a 4th root of unity modulo 5.`

Roots of unity come up constantly in a wide variety of applications: you'll most frequently see the $n^{th}$ root of unity written as $e^\frac{2\pi i}{n}$, and they come up so frequently because they give an easy way to describe rotations.
This is what [Euler's Formula](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mvmuCPvRoWQ) is about.

`Example: Multiplying by `$i$ `is a rotation of order 4 in` $\mathbb{C}$`.
More generally, multiplying by a 4th root of unity is a rotation of order 4.`

## Additional References:

- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/146BOC_hHH0703OcKT-LwjIb3S0NYkGh0/view?usp=share_link), [video recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BKViygqOW3I\&list=PLcPzhUaCxlCjdhONxEYZ1dgKjZh3ZvPtl\&index=3), and [practice problems](./about-finite-fields-exercises.md) from RISC Zero Study Club
- [David Forney's Introduction to Finite Fields (Chapter 7)](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/6-451-principles-of-digital-communication-ii-spring-2005/pages/readings-and-lecture-notes)
- [Guruswami's Basics of Finite Fields](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~venkatg/teaching/codingtheory-au14/notes/finite-fields.pdf) (PDF)
- [A. Sutherland's notes on finite fields and integer arithmetic](https://math.mit.edu/classes/18.783/2017/LectureNotes3.pdf) (PDF)
- [Splitting $x^{n}-1$ over a finite field](https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/2511486)

[receipt]: https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/*/risc0_zkvm/struct.Receipt.html

Commit message:

docs(reference): mention finite field extensions F_{p^k} and their use

website/docs/reference-docs/about-finite-fields.md, after:

# About Finite Fields

_RISC Zero's [computational receipts][receipt] are built by converting an assertion of computational integrity into an assertion about polynomials over finite fields.
This document serves as a minimal introduction to finite fields, targeted at folks who have some exposure to modular arithmetic and who are curious to learn more about the [math and cryptography behind RISC Zero](../proof-system/proof-system.md)._

## Finite Fields 101: Reciprocals, Exponents, and Generators

Loosely speaking, a **field** is a set of elements for which addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division work cleanly.

Here's what we mean by division working cleanly: for any field element $x$, we should be able to find a field element $x^{-1}$ such that $x\cdot x^{-1}\equiv1.$
We call $x^{-1}$ the _reciprocal_ of $x$ or the _multiplicative inverse_ of $x$.

`Example: The integers are not a field because the reciprocal of 3 is not an integer.`

`Example: The integers modulo 5 are a field. In this field, the reciprocal of 2 is 3. 4 is its own reciprocal.`

If $p$ is prime, the integers modulo $p$ are a field.
More generally, finite fields of order $p^k$ (written as $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$) exist for any prime $p$ and integer $k\ge 1$, and they are widely used in modern cryptographic protocols and proof systems.
Moreover, I can find some element $g$ and write all the integers modulo $p$ as powers of $g$.

`Example: The integers modulo 5 can all be written as a power of 3.`

We say $3$ is a **multiplicative generator** for the integers modulo 5. For any prime modulus, a multiplicative generator exists.

## Finite Fields 201: Polynomials Over Finite Fields

Most of your Algebra II knowledge about polynomials still holds in finite fields.

`Example: Consider` $f(x)=x^2-1\text{ mod }5$`.  Observe that ` $f(1)=f(4)=0.$
`We say ` $f$ `has roots at 1 and 4, and we can factor in the familiar way:` $f(x)=(x-1)(x-4)$`.`

`Example:
Given three ordered pairs modulo 5, we can interpolate a degree 2 polynomial that passes through each point.`

FFTs still work over finite fields, although they're called NTTs.

> If the ideas above this text make sense, you should have enough finite field background to make sense of the applications in RISC Zero.

## Finite Fields 301 ― Roots of Unity

$z$ is called an **$n^{th}$ Root of Unity** if $z^n=1$.

`Example: 3 is a 4th root of unity modulo 5.`

Roots of unity come up constantly in a wide variety of applications: you'll most frequently see the $n^{th}$ root of unity written as $e^\frac{2\pi i}{n}$, and they come up so frequently because they give an easy way to describe rotations.
This is what [Euler's Formula](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mvmuCPvRoWQ) is about.

`Example: Multiplying by `$i$ `is a rotation of order 4 in` $\mathbb{C}$`.
More generally, multiplying by a 4th root of unity is a rotation of order 4.`

## Additional References:

- [Slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/146BOC_hHH0703OcKT-LwjIb3S0NYkGh0/view?usp=share_link), [video recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BKViygqOW3I\&list=PLcPzhUaCxlCjdhONxEYZ1dgKjZh3ZvPtl\&index=3), and [practice problems](./about-finite-fields-exercises.md) from RISC Zero Study Club
- [David Forney's Introduction to Finite Fields (Chapter 7)](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/6-451-principles-of-digital-communication-ii-spring-2005/pages/readings-and-lecture-notes)
- [Guruswami's Basics of Finite Fields](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~venkatg/teaching/codingtheory-au14/notes/finite-fields.pdf) (PDF)
- [A. Sutherland's notes on finite fields and integer arithmetic](https://math.mit.edu/classes/18.783/2017/LectureNotes3.pdf) (PDF)
- [Splitting $x^{n}-1$ over a finite field](https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/2511486)

[receipt]: https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/*/risc0_zkvm/struct.Receipt.html
