website/api_versioned_docs/version-3.0/generating-proofs/proving-options.md, before:

# Options for Proof Generation

To support a variety of use cases, RISC Zero allows users a variety of options for proof generation.

Users can choose between:

1. [dev-mode]: No proofs are generated, enabling rapid prototyping.
2. [Local Proving]: Proofs are generated on the user's own CPU/GPU.
3. [Remote Proving]: Proofs are generated by [Bonsai], a highly parallelized, highly performant proving service.

We recommend option 1 during development, option 2 for applications involving private inputs, and option 3 for all other applications.

:::tip
[`prove_with_opts`] allows users to choose between [composite, succinct or groth16 receipts].
See the [Shrink-Wrapping] page for more details about groth16 receipts.
:::

[`prove_with_opts`]: https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/3.0/risc0_zkvm/trait.Prover.html#method.prove_with_opts
[Bonsai]: https://bonsai.xyz
[composite, succinct or groth16 receipts]: https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/3.0/risc0_zkvm/enum.ReceiptKind.html
[dev-mode]: ./dev-mode.md
[Local Proving]: ./local-proving.md
[Remote Proving]: ./remote-proving.md
[Shrink-Wrapping]: ../blockchain-integration/shrink-wrapping.md

Commit message:

Dropping Bonsai from docs (#3561)
As we move forward with shutting down Bonsai, this PR removes Bonsai
from the docs in most locations. In most cases, we simply update the
link to point to [Boundless](https://boundless.network).

### Future Work 
There are a few remaining Bonsai references, which can be addressed
later:
- A reference to "Bonsai Pay"
- A reference to "Bonsai Governance"
- A reference to the "litepaper" 

I think we should remove the litepaper, because it's showing up
prominently in the search tool in the dev docs. This may cause some
problems with broken links in old versions, because the litepaper is
stored in `pages/` which lives outside the api versioning system. I
figure we'll just disable those links, but there's already a decently
sized diff on this PR so will save that for a future PR. Not immediately
sure what we want to do about the other two items in this list, so I'm
just leaving them for now.

website/api_versioned_docs/version-3.0/generating-proofs/proving-options.md, after:

# Options for Proof Generation

To support a variety of use cases, RISC Zero allows users a variety of options for proof generation.

Users can choose between:

1. [dev-mode]: No proofs are generated, enabling rapid prototyping.
2. [Local Proving]: Proofs are generated on the user's own CPU/GPU.
3. [Remote Proving]: Proofs are generated by [Boundless], an open-market for R0VM users.

We recommend option 1 during development, option 2 for applications involving private inputs, and option 3 for all other applications.

:::tip
[`prove_with_opts`] allows users to choose between [composite, succinct or groth16 receipts].
See the [Shrink-Wrapping] page for more details about groth16 receipts.
:::

[`prove_with_opts`]: https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/3.0/risc0_zkvm/trait.Prover.html#method.prove_with_opts
[Boundless]: http://boundless.network
[composite, succinct or groth16 receipts]: https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/3.0/risc0_zkvm/enum.ReceiptKind.html
[dev-mode]: ./dev-mode.md
[Local Proving]: ./local-proving.md
[Remote Proving]: ./remote-proving.md
[Shrink-Wrapping]: ../blockchain-integration/shrink-wrapping.md
