# REST API

In its current form, Bonsai is available as REST API which parallelizes proving for individual proofs across a number of GPU workers to maximize performance.

To request an API key, complete the application form at [bonsai.xyz/apply](https://bonsai.xyz/apply).

## Key Features

### STARK To SNARK

While STARK proofs, like the ones that are generated by the zkVM, offer a number of advantages over SNARKs, they're notoriously big and computationally intensive to verify on-chain. Bonsai offers the best of both worlds by wrapping zkVM STARKs in circom Groth16 SNARKs for easy and gas-efficient on-chain verification. Check out how do this with the [Bonsai Rust SDK](https://github.com/risc0/risc0/tree/release-0.19/bonsai/sdk#stark-to-snark) or directly [via the API](https://api.bonsai.xyz/swagger-ui/#/snark/route_snark_create).

## API Limits

Bonsai enforces a number of API limits. These limits are configurable on a per API key basis. If your limits are too low to support your use case or you run out cycles, email us at devrel@risczero.com to request more.

These limits are:

- **Concurrent proofs**: The max number of proofs you can generate simultaneously.
- **Cycle budget**: The max number of [cycles] you can prove on Bonsai.
- **Cycle usage**: The historical count of cycles used by your API key.
- **Executor cycle limit**: The max number of cycles your API key can prove for an individual proof.
- **Max parallelism**: The maximum number of workers an individual proof can be parallelized across (this limit is currently inactive).

### Checking your limits

You can request your individual limits using the [user/quotas](https://api.bonsai.xyz/swagger-ui/#/user/route_user_quota) API route.

### Understanding cycle counts

You can log the cycle count and other performance info for your zkVM Guest program by following the instructions [here](/api/zkvm/quickstart#executor-statistics).

[cycles]: /terminology#clock-cycles
