---
sidebar_position: 5
slug: /terminology
displayed_sidebar: GettingStartedSidebar
---

# Key Terminology

### Circuit

[circuit]: #circuit
[Arithmetic Circuits]: ./reference-docs/about-arithmetic-circuits

A mathematical construct that acts as the "CPU" of the [zkVM] in a manner that enables creating [proofs]. <br/>
See also: [Arithmetic Circuits]

### Clock cycles

[clock cycles]: #clock-cycles

The smallest unit of compute in the zkVM [circuit], analogous to a clock cycle on a physical CPU. The complexity of a [guest program]'s [execution] is measured in clock cycles as they directly affect the memory, proof size, and time performance of the [zkVM].

Generally, a single cycle corresponds to a single [RISC-V] operation. However, some operations require two cycles.

### Commit

[commit]: #commit
[env::commit()]: https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/0.18/risc0_zkvm/guest/env/fn.commit.html

Append data to the [journal]. <br/>
See also: [env::commit()]

### Continuations

[Continuations study club]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v4HIwaqmIxk&list=PLcPzhUaCxlCirUkJY0ltpjdtzWcz5U_6y&index=1
[Continuations blog]: https://www.risczero.com/news/continuations

As of our 0.15 release, the [zkVM] uses continuations to enable proof generation for very large programs without blowing up memory requirements.
Large proof generation is made possible by splitting the execution trace for a single [session] into a number of [segments], and proving those segments independently. <br/>
See also: [Continuations study club], [Continuations blog]

### ELF Binary

[ELF binary]: #elf-binary

The executable format for the [RISC-V] instruction set.
Each [method] in a [guest program] is written in Rust and compiled into an ELF binary before execution begins. Then, the ELF binary is [executed] and [proven].

### Execute

[execute]: #execute
[executes]: #execute
[execution]: #execute

Run a [method] inside the [zkVM] and produce an [execution trace] which can be used by the [prover] to create a [proof] of correct execution.

### Executor

[executed]: #executor
[executor]: #executor
[Executor documentation]: https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/0.18/risc0_zkvm/struct.Executor.html

The portion of the [zkVM] responsible for generating the [execution trace]. <br/>
See also: [Executor documentation], [Prover]

### Execution Trace

[execution trace]: #execution-trace

A complete record of a computation.
The execution trace is organized as a rectangular array, where each row describes a complete snapshot of the state of the [zkVM] at a given moment in time.
The width of the execution trace relates to the number of registers/components in the machine, and the length of the execution trace relates to the number of [clock cycles] of the program's execution.

The execution trace is generated by the [executor] and checked for validity by the [prover].
A valid trace means that the [ELF binary] was faithfully executed according to the rules of the [RISC-V] instruction set architecture.

### Guest

The system running inside the [zkVM]. <br/>
See also: [Rust crate for zkVM guest]

### Guest Program

[guest program]: #guest-program

The portion of a [zkVM] application that gets proven.
The guest program receives inputs from an (untrusted) [host].
Depending on the application, the guest program can [commit] results to the [journal] and/or send them to the host. <br/>
See also: [Rust crate for zkVM guest]

### Host

[host]: #host

The system the [zkVM] runs on.

### Host program

The [host]-native, untrusted portion of a [zkVM] application.
The host program loads the [guest program] and provides inputs to the guest program as necessary.

### Image ID

[imageID]: #image-id

A small cryptographic identifier that indicates the [method] or boot image for zkVM [execution]. <br/>
See also: [ImageID documentation], [ImageID excerpt from Study Club], [segment]

### Journal

[journal]: #journal

The portion of the [receipt] that contains the public outputs of a [zkVM] application. <br/>
See also: [commit]

### Method

[method]: #method

A single 'main' entry point for code that runs inside the [zkVM].

### Prove

[prove]: #prove
[proves]: #prove

Generate a [receipt] that serves as [proof] of correct execution of a [guest program].

### Prover

[proven]: #prover
[prover]: #prover
[Prover documentation]: https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/0.18/risc0_zkvm/trait.Prover.html

The portion of the [zkVM] that [executes] and [proves] a [guest program], thereby constructing a [receipt]. <br/>
See also: [Prover documentation], [Executor]

### Receipt

[receipt]: #receipt

A receipt attests to valid [execution] of a [guest program]. [Verifying] the receipt provides cryptographic assurance that the [journal] was indeed constructed using the expected [circuit] and the expected [imageID].
The receipt consists of a [journal] and a [seal].
The journal attests to the public outputs of the program, and
the seal is the opaque blob that cryptographically attests to the validity of the receipt.

### RISC-V

[RISC-V]: #risc-v

The 5th edition of UC Berkeley's reduced instruction set computer architecture.
RISC Zero uses RISC-V, specifically the [rv32im instruction set](https://riscv.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/riscv-spec-20191213.pdf), as the basis for the RISC Zero zkVM.

### Seal

[seal]: #seal

The portion of the [receipt] that cryptographically attests to the correct execution of the [guest program]. Concretely, the seal is a [zk-STARK] and is generated by the [prover]. <br/>
See also: [Validity Proof]

### Segment

[Segment]: #segment
[Segments]: #segment

The [execution trace] of a portion of a [guest program].
The execution of a segment begins at some initial memory image (identified by the [ImageID]) and proceeds until terminated by the system or user.
This represents a chunk of execution work that will be proven in a single call to the ZKP system. <br/>
See also: [Session]

### Session

[session]: #session

The [execution trace] of a [guest program].
The session's execution starts from an initial memory image (which includes the starting program counter) and proceeds until either a sys_halt or a sys_pause syscall is encountered.
This record is stored as a vector of [Segments].

### STARK

[STARK]: #stark
[zk-stark]: #stark

A STARK (scalable, transparent argument of knowledge) serves as proof of validity for a [zkVM] program. <br/>
See also: [About STARKs], [Sequence Diagram for RISC Zero's STARK], [RISC Zero's ZKP Whitepaper]

### Validity Proof

[proof]: #validity-proof
[proofs]: #validity-proof
[validity proof]: #validity-proof

A validity proof is a cryptographic argument that attests to the validity of an [execution trace].
The [seal] on the [receipt] serves as a validity proof for the RISC-V instruction set.

### Verifier

A program on the [host] that [verifies] a [receipt].

### Verify

[verifying]: #verify
[verifies]: #verify

Check that the [receipt] is valid.
Verifying [segment] receipts requires checking that the [seal] is valid and was generated by the expected [ImageID].
Verifying [session] receipts requires checking the validity of each [segment] and checking that the initial/final memory snapshots for each segment align appropriately.

### Zero-Knowledge Virtual Machine (zkVM)

[zkVM]: #zero-knowledge-virtual-machine-zkvm

A virtual machine that runs trusted code and generates proofs.
RISC Zero's zkVM implements the RISC-V instruction set architecture and uses a [STARK]-based proof system.

[About STARKs]: ./reference-docs/about-starks
[ImageID documentation]: https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/0.18/risc0_zkvm/struct.SystemState.html
[ImageID excerpt from Study Club]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QwzrBHHkzFE&list=PLcPzhUaCxlCirUkJY0ltpjdtzWcz5U_6y&index=4
[RISC Zero's ZKP Whitepaper]: https://risczero.com/proof-system-in-detail.pdf
[Rust crate for zkVM guest]: https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm
[Sequence Diagram for RISC Zero's STARK]: ./proof-system/proof-system-sequence-diagram
