# Verifier Contracts

To utilize the results generated by a [zkVM][term-zkvm] program in your on-chain application, it's essential to [verify][term-verify] the [receipt][term-receipt] on-chain.

You can verify a RISC Zero [Groth16Receipt] using a `verify()` call to an [IRiscZeroVerifier][IRiscZeroVerifier] contract.

## Verification Cost

SNARK verification via the `verifyProof` function on the [RISCZeroGroth16Verifier][RISCZeroGroth16Verifier] contract costs around 215k gas. However, you'll notice that a transaction calling `verify()` via the [RiscZeroVerifierRouter](#verifer-router) costs [~316k gas][verify-sepolia-etherscan]. 

This 100k gas overhead comes mostly from storage loads, jumping contracts, input validation and integrity checks across  multiple contract calls starting from [RiscZeroVerifierRouter](#verifer-router). Based on the first 4 bytes of the seal, the router contract [looks up][function-getVerifier] the matching verifier implementation for the next contract call. This contract call is via the [RiscZeroVerifierEmergencyStop][RiscZeroVerifierEmergencyStop] contract as part of the [emergency stop mechanism][emergency-stop-mechanism]; the overhead here comes from loading state for safety checks, and to route the call to the correct verifier contract address where `verifyProof()` can be called directly.

Depending on your security model, there are a few different available [verifier usage patterns][verifier-usage-patterns] which allow for adjusting the cost of this gas overhead. These patterns trade off the managed version management and the emergency stop capabilities for directly calling `verifyProof()`.

## Using a Verifier

Use verifier contract in your application by calling the `verify` method with the expected [journal][term-journal] and other fields of the [receipt][term-receipt].

Below is an example from the [EvenNumber.sol][EvenNumber.sol] contract in the [Foundry Template][foundry-template]:

```solidity
contract EvenNumber {
    // ...

    /// @notice Set the even number stored on the contract. Requires a RISC Zero proof that the number is even.
    function set(uint256 x, bytes calldata seal) public {
        // Construct the expected journal data. Verify will fail if journal does not match.
        bytes memory journal = abi.encode(x);
        // The verify call will revert if the given seal is not a verifying zero-knowledge proof.
        verifier.verify(seal, IS_EVEN_ID, sha256(journal));
        number = x;
    }

    // ...
}
```

In this example, the `IS_EVEN` zkVM program verifies that the number, `x`, is even.
By verifying a receipt with the [image ID][term-image-id] of that program, it is guaranteed that the stored number will always be even.
RISC Zero's zkVM and the `IS_EVEN` program guarantee that it's computationally impossible to produce a verifying receipt for an odd number.

## Verifier Implementations

All of our deployed verifier contracts implement the [IRiscZeroVerifier][IRiscZeroVerifier] interface.

We deploy a base verifier implementation, the emergency stop wrapper, and the router as part of our [version management design][version-management].
It is recommended that most applications use [RiscZeroVerifierRouter](#verifier-router).
In some cases, your application may wish to make calls directly to either the emergency stop wrapper, or the base implementation.

:::tip
It is recommended that you use the [RiscZeroVerifierRouter](#verifier-router)
:::

## Verifier Router

Calls to `RiscZeroVerifierRouter.verify()` will be routed to the appropriate base verifier contract depending on which version of the zkVM was used to generate the receipt.
By using the `RiscZeroVerifierRouter`, your contract can accept multiple types of receipts, including batch-verified receipts and receipts generated with future improvements to the zkVM and proofs system.

RISC Zero deploys and manages the `RiscZeroVerifierRouter` contract listed below.
This contract will have verifiers added for each release of the zkVM, and will have verifiers removed in the case of security vulnerabilities.
You can find detailed information in the [version management design][version-management], including information about how to manage your own copy of the smart contracts, if your application requires it.

### Contract Addresses

:::info
Contracts are not deployed for unreleased versions.
You can use the [deployed contracts for a released version][doc-released-contracts].
:::

<!-- TODO: Move this example into risc0-ethereum such that it will be under the same version management -->

[doc-released-contracts]: /api/blockchain-integration/contracts/verifier#contract-addresses
[emergency-stop-mechanism]: https://github.com/risc0/risc0-ethereum/blob/main/contracts/version-management-design.md#emergency-stop
[EvenNumber.sol]: https://github.com/risc0/risc0-foundry-template/blob/main/contracts/EvenNumber.sol#L46-L52
[foundry-template]: https://github.com/risc0/risc0-foundry-template
[function-getVerifier]: https://github.com/risc0/risc0-ethereum/blob/6132e946a142cea6f53f325e8fd0c175ad0ec283/contracts/src/RiscZeroVerifierRouter.sol#L74
[Groth16Receipt]: https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/latest/risc0_zkvm/struct.Groth16Receipt.html
[IRiscZeroVerifier]: https://github.com/risc0/risc0-ethereum/blob/main/contracts/src/IRiscZeroVerifier.sol
[RISCZeroGroth16Verifier]: https://github.com/risc0/risc0-ethereum/blob/main/contracts/src/groth16/RiscZeroGroth16Verifier.sol
[RiscZeroVerifierEmergencyStop]: https://github.com/risc0/risc0-ethereum/blob/main/contracts/src/RiscZeroVerifierEmergencyStop.sol
[term-image-id]: /terminology#image-id
[term-journal]: /terminology#journal
[term-receipt]: /terminology#receipt
[term-verify]: /terminology#verify
[term-zkvm]: /terminology#zero-knowledge-virtual-machine-zkvm
[verifier-usage-patterns]: https://github.com/risc0/risc0-ethereum/blob/main/contracts/version-management-design.md#usage-patterns
[verify-sepolia-etherscan]: https://sepolia.etherscan.io/tx/0x28803b006ac64c08d386676abf34d8ba6232173b28f09ddd4f0c253e37904f91/advanced
[version-management]: https://github.com/risc0/risc0-ethereum/blob/release-1.1/contracts/version-management-design.md
